# Journal entry for 29 November 2019
## What have I done so far.
* I've implemented the Poisson Lilypond model in Python but it's currently very slow
and uses numerical integration for the lambda.
There's a single remaining bug but for most cases it works just fine.
  * The model has been extended so that various growth rates are possible and various birth times too.
  * Implemented inhomogeneous intensity through thinning

* I've read some of the literature on the model.
  * I'm overwhelmed with how dense these papers are.
    The proofs are going well over my heads but I'm understanding some of
    the statements they're making.
  * Percolation and the Limit Theory for the Poisson Lilypond Model (Last & Penrose, 2013)
    * Dissected as much as I could
  * On the absence of percolation in a line-segment based lilypond model (Hirsch, 2014)
    * Have not read much of this paper

* I've also gotten some books on percolation which may or may not be useful.
  * Continuum percolation (Mester & Roy, 1996)
    * Had loads of information on Poisson Boolean models.
  * Percolation (Grimmett, 1999)
    * Had mostly discrete models don't think there's anything useful there.

## What do I intend to do the coming week.
* Rewrite the program in C for a small boost in speed. Also document it well.

* I would like to visualise the graph made from the collisions of grains.

* Also would like to be able to compare the models. A technique called coupling
  you force two independent models to become dependent so you may easily compare them.
  Run the simulation on the points normally then one where you ignore birth time etc.

* Eventually figure out what I want to analyse.

## Long term
* Look into extending it to 3D (which shouldn't be that hard)

* Alternative shapes and distance metrics (manhattan distance)

##  Lingering questions.
* I'm currently unsure of where to take the project next.
  * Trying to prove something new about the model seems mighty difficult.
    * Reduce the complexity of the model and focus on a small part. That's what
      Last and Penrose (2010) did they percolated with a possible jumping distance.
      Doing so gave them a critical jumping distance which almost always percolates.
      * Focus on random birth times
        * Ebert and Last (2015) already proved the model exists and
          is unique and does not percolate and a central limit.
          They also showed how it relates to Apollonian packing.
      * Focus on varying growth rates
        * How should they be distributed? What would be natural?
      * Focus on non-homogeneous intensity
        * What lambda density should be used?
        * Exploring clustering
    * What would I even prove?
      * Percolation
      * Largest grain size
      * Largest connected component (by what metric: volume, number of grains, dimensions)
      * Density/saturation coverage/packing fraction
      * Proving a central limit theorem
  * Finding ways to improve the algorithm because it's currently running at n^4 time

* An issue with the current model is that it's bounded by the dimensions we define.
  In reality this model should have an infinite number of circles. Is there any way
  we can approximate this behaviour?
