# Journal entry for 13 December 2019
## What do I intend to-do this week.
- [ ] Figure out some way to identify each circle.
  - ~Create a color for each circle then provide a legend~
  - Find a different visualiser that allows us to hover over each element

- [x] Though I have read some papers about it I'm still unsure on the following:
  - It seems continuum percolation defines percolation as an unbounded connected
  component. How they able to tell if an unbounded connected component exists?
  - Are there other ways to define percolation. For discrete cases there seems
  to be the case when there's a pathway from top to bottom. Is there something
  as nice and finite as that for continuous cases?
  - [x] E-mail Thomas about ways to test for percolation in this case. Are the
  ways I've found reasonable?

- [ ] Work on extending `attempt2` where we improve our \*.lp format and
add entries for connections
  * We still define the initial collision in each row since the first collision
  is special
  * Our `solvelp` should not delete the pairs but rather store them in an array
  to be ordered later.

- [x] Maybe we could get a speed boost by calculating each pair using
multiprogramming. Store a global that is mutexed which finds the minimum.

- [ ] ~Begin investigating if the size is cause for the issues.
This is because if we include a very tiny tail we'll be forced to create a
large number of points many of which will be dropped.~
  - [ ] ~Investigate different types of in-homogeneous Poisson processes and
  measure how fast they get generated.~
  - [ ] How about speed of solving? I think some structures take longer than
  others despite having equal/less points.

- [x] Begin investigating Lp norms and maybe a few weird shapes.

- [x] Investigate faster ways of solving including approximations.

- [ ] Investigate better visualisers.
  - Preferably something that purely saves the final image
  - Also something that is interactive

## What have I done so far.

* E-mailed Thomas about percolation. He's given me some ideas.

* The multiprogramming might not work since overhead. But I'll try implementing
it next week.

* Some of the questions I'm asking seem trivial in retrospect

* After spending some time implementing the approximation model I noticed
that it might work very well in matrix form. In this case it might be worth
it to describe the problem in terms of matrices.

* After implementing the approximation in Python I actually found it was
still much slower than the `solvelp` C solution. I'm unsure why though.

* Implementing different ideas of measurement was actually pretty easy.
It's the visualising which is annoying.

* Though not implemented yet I have considered a design that *should* bring us
to be easy to implement. The only issue is when to stop printing pairs.

## What do I intend to do the coming week.

* Explore the idea of using matrices to approximate our system.

* Investigate why the approximation is taking far longer.
  * Is it because I'm using a `set` data structure?

* Once implemented the delta increase run some experiments to numerically
determine our curve or possible deltas to achieve percolation.

## Long term
* Look into extending it to 3D (which shouldn't be that hard)
